# dojo_lang_detector

The objective of this dojo idea is to label wikipedia articles with their
languages.

To achieve this training and tests data are provided in this repository
with their schemas documented below.

To get a score on the dojo leaderboard, your script will have to be able to
take a filename of a test dataset and generate an answer file.

i.e:

  python label_articles.py < test_200.json > team_n_answers.json

Then the grading.py script is going to be used to get the official dojo score.

The score is computed by adding 1 for correct guesses, -1 for incorrect guesses
and 0 for no guess.

## Files schema

## lang_train.json

Label training dataset as a jsonl ([JSON Lines](http://jsonlines.org/)) file containing objects with the
following schema:

1. text
UTF-8 extract from wikipedia articles, cleared of HTML tags.
2. lang
iso code of the language in the extract.
3. subject
the wikipedia subject of the language of the extract

## train_*.json

Another label training dataset as a jsonl file containing objects with the
same schema as lang_train.json but in which the text is only 100 or 200
characters from the middle of the article.

## test_100.json

Unlabel label test dataset as a jsonl file containing objects with the
following schema:

<dl>
  <dt>text</dt>
  <dd>100 characters long UTF-8 extract from wikipedia articles, cleared of HTML tags</dd>

  <dt>example</dt>
  <dd>Example identifier.</dd>
</dl>

## random_solution.py

Example solution, to demonstrate the expected output.

## random_solution_answers.json

An example answer file as generated by `random_solution.py`, following schema:

<dl>
  <dt>example</dt>
  <dd>Example identifier.</dd>

  <dt>lang</dt>
  <dd>Code of the language guessed by the solution. null denotes no guess.</dd>
</dl>

## languages.json

A json object containing the mapping between the languages iso codes and their
human names.

## jsonl

The jsonl format contains newline delimited json objects. For example:

```
    {"lang": "it", "text": "ico del Nord...", "subject": "Atlantic_Ocean"}
    {"lang": "be", "text": "га да гораду ...", "subject": "New_York_City"}
```

A typical way to decode those files in Python is to use such a generator
comprehension: `json.loads(line) for line in open(json_l_filename)`.

More details at http://jsonlines.org/.
